The middle-aged woman looked out into the crowded emergency room.
Sherry could barely remember driving herself to the hospital. She
couldn’t remember at all how she got from her car to the door of
the E.R. She couldn’t remember the nurses taking her blood pressureor
placing the IV into the permanent port that had been inserted under
the skin of her chest for the blood transfusions she had needed for
years. But she knew all of this must have happened because she was
watching the dark red liquid drip from the bag, down the tubing into
the needle that disappeared into her chest. It scared her. Not the
blood transfusion — she had dozens of them over these past 18 years.
She was scared by the degree of impairment she must have had while
driving here. When her blood count got really low, she couldn’t think
straight; she knew this about herself. And yet she had driven the 12
miles from her home in suburban Austin to this hospital in a condition
she now knew was unsafe. She had been behind the wheel when she was
severely impaired. Not by drugs or alcohol, but by a brain starved
of sufficient blood. Sherry knew she would have been angry if her
children had driven in a similar state. She felt embarrassed and
ashamed of her own recklessness. She watched the second unit of blood
ease into her system. She felt like every drop helped her feel just
a little stronger, think just a little more clearly. When the transfusion
was done, she was eager to go. They checked her blood to make certain
it was at a safe level and, when reassured, discharged her.When she
got home, she told her husband and teenage children what had happened.
“Never let me do that again,” she begged them. If they saw her with
the car keys in her hands, they needed to talk to her to make sure she
was making sense. If she wasn’t able to carry on a conversation, she was
sure she shouldn’t be allowed to drive. Why didn’t you ask for a ride?
her older daughter asked. We were all here. Sherry felt her face redden.
I guess I was too impaired to know how impaired I was, she confessed.